home theater installations typically
involve five to seven loudspeakers a
subwoofer to a doctorate and electronics
and lots and lots of speaker wire not
every room can accommodate all of that
stuff and not every homeowner wants to
live with it the Harman Kardon SB 16
home cinema sound bar system offers an
elegant and far simpler alternative a
single amplified loudspeaker unit
connected directly to your television
DVD player or game console and a single
wireless subwoofer that you can place
anywhere in the room offering
traditional stereo playback for
realistic 3d virtual surround sound
processing the SB 16 delivers true
Harman Kardon performance with the
absolute minimum number of components
and no wires in sight inside of the SB
16 sound bar there are two separate
speaker chambers each of these chambers
is a two-way speaker with each speaker
chamber consisting of two 3-inch
mid-range drivers and one three-quarter
inch dome tweeter also built into the
sound bar is a powerful 25 watt 4
channel amplifier to provide you with
true high-end audio performance from a
completely self-contained unit but what
really defines a great home theater
experience is quality of the bass
usually this means you have to run
cables throughout your listening room to
massive subwoofers but the Harman Kardon
SP 16 is different the subwoofer is
wireless so that you can place it
anywhere you want within your room and
more importantly you do not have to
sacrifice performance for convenience
the subwoofer has a powerful 100 watt
amplifier with a 10-inch driver to
provide you with room filling bass
connecting the SP 16 to your TV is easy
step one is to simply take the stereo
audio cable that is supplied in the box
and plug one set of plugs into the audio
out left and right on the back of your
TV if your TV has two sets of audio
outputs on the back then connect the
cables to the audio outputs that are
labeled as fixed this will enable you to
turn your TV speakers all the way off
while the TV still supplies a constant
audio signal to the sound bar you will
then connect the other end of the stereo
audio cable to source one left and right
located on the back of the SP 16 sound
bar step two is to connect your cable or
satellite tuner to the sound bar to do
this take the supplied optical digital
audio cable and connect one end to the
optical digital out of your tuner and
the other end to the optical input on
the back of the sound bar step three is
to connect your DVD or blu-ray player to
the sound bar to do this take a coaxial
digital audio cable and connect one end
to the coaxial digital output of your
DVD or blu-ray player and the other end
to the coaxial audio input on the back
of the sound bar please note that if
your DVD player cable tuner or satellite
tuner do not have a coaxial digital
output or an optical digital outlet then
you will want to connect the analog
audio outputs from these devices to the
analog audio inputs of your TV your TV
will then send its audio signal to the
sound bar through the analog connection
that we performed in step one there are
five buttons on the top of the sound bar
the first button is the power button and
turns the sound bar on and off the
second button is the surround mode
button and will switch between the
normal stereo mode and the 3d surround
sound mode
but the third and fourth buttons turn
the volume up and down and the fifth and
final button is the source button and
switches between the sound bars analog
optical digital and coaxial digital
connections to set up your sound bar to
work wirelessly with your subwoofer is
as simple as flipping the switch on the
back of both the sound bar and the
subwoofer there is a wireless code
switch the switch has four different
positions set the switches of both the
sound bar and subwoofer to the same
position in the unlikely event that you
encounter some static or interference
flip the switches to another position
again the key is to make sure that the
switches on both the subwoofer and the
sound bar are set to the same position
plug the subwoofers AC power cord into
the wall the subwoofer will go into the
standby mode it is designed to turn on
automatically when it receives an audio
signal and it will return to the standby
mode when it has not received an audio
signal for about 15 minutes the
subwoofers LED will turn blue when the
subwoofer is on and will turn amber when
the subwoofer is in the standby mode the
wall mounting brackets and digital audio
cable are included there is only one
thing that you will notice it's not
included with the SP 16 a remote control
and this is for a very good reason the
SB 16 will learn the basic functions of
your TV's remote you can turn it on and
off change the volume or even change the
source from your current TV's remote
this means no more clutter and a simpler
to operate home theater system
programming the SB 16 to work with your
TV's remote is a three-step process
first with the sound bar turned on hold
down the sound bars power and source
selector buttons together until all the
sound bar button indicators flash this
enters the sound bar into the learning
mode
second within 20 seconds momentarily
press the soundbars power button it will
turn amber and third aim your TV remotes
the front of the soundbar from about 12
to 36 inches away
hold down the TV's remote power button
for one second then release it do this a
total of four times when the soundbar
has learned the power command its power
indicator will turn blue and the
surround sound mode and source selector
indicators will flash blue if the power
indicator flashes amber the procedure
failed and you will need to repeat these
three steps you will use this same
three-step process
to program the volume up and down
functions the Harman Kardon SP 16
remains true to Harman Kardon rich
tradition of elegant styling with
superior audio performance it is easy to
set up and easy to use the Harman Kardon
SP 16 is the perfect home theater
solution for your flat panel TV